Updates for `Sumida` protocol upgrade (#147)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: concepts/architecture/index.md

	Autonity Protocol smart contracts are part of the client binary. _Liquid Newton_ smart contracts are deployed on validator registration.

- Consensus layer: blockchain consensus provided by the **Proof of Stake Tendermint BFT** protocol. Blocks are proposed by validators and selected by the committee for inclusion in the blockchain, with finality. The consensus mechanism enables dynamic consensus committee selection using a stake-weighting algorithm, maximising the amount of stake securing the system.

> - Communication layer: peer-to-peer networking in the **communication layer** is extended with new block and consensus messaging propagation primitives, to enable the gossiping of transaction and consensus information among validators and participant nodes b [P2P networking protocols](/concepts/system-model/#p2p-networking-protocols).

Reviewer: typo I guess (the `b` before the link)

Author: Typo removed. I've also reworded to simplify this paragraph to:

>- Communication layer: peer-to-peer networking is modified to enable the gossiping of transaction and consensus information among validators and participant nodes in separate channels.  See [P2P networking protocols](/concepts/system-model/#p2p-networking-protocols).

Author: See commit 81ed1528ebf1e2ce9be557cf9b1ce6ad77a9e4ac

To learn more about the concept see [Auton Stability Mechanism (ASM)](/concepts/asm/).

### Protocol contract upgrade

Autonity protocol contracts are upgradable by governance calling the [`upgrade()`](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#upgrade) function on the `upgradeManagerContract` to provide new contract bytecode and abi for a designated protocol contract address.

> Upgrade functions by replacing contract logic for a designated contract address. The contract address and replacement contract code is passed in as parameters to the `upgrade()` function call. The block [`finalize()`](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#finalize) function checks if a contract upgrade is available. The protocol will then update the contract code of the autonity contract during the block finalization phase. Contract code is replaced in the EVM and existing contract state is maintained.

Reviewer: The upgrade at finalize is how the native upgrade mechanism for the AC works (it is still there). 

However with the new UpgradeManager contract the bytecode substitution is immediate (as soon as the tx is executed).

Author: @lorenzo-dev1 - edited in commit f5420c5cb309f92ea91a7ee169ebc06c47ede543

Please review 👍

The consensus protocol makes use of:

- The [communication layer](/concepts/architecture/#communication-layer) for consensus round messaging and consensus state synchronisation in a [dedicated consensus channel](/concepts/system-model/#p2p-networking-protocols).

> - The [Autonity Protocol Contract](/concepts/architecture/#autonity-protocol-contract) for [committee selection logic](/reference/api/aut/op-prot/#computecommittee).

Reviewer: I think this sentence is fine, no need to modify. However as a note now the computeCommittee logic is in a precompiled contract (although it is still called from the AC, so I think it is an implementation detail).

Author: OK. Resolving.

To learn more about the concept, see [Consensus](/concepts/consensus/), [System model, Networking](/concepts/consensus/) and the [protocol parameters](/reference/protocol/) reference.

## Communication Layer

Autonity uses a [fully connected network topology](/glossary/#mesh-network) with peer-to-peer communication based on Ethereum [devp2p](https://github.com/ethereum/devp2p) network protocols RLPx and wire protocol.

At the P2P level, Autonity separates transaction and consensus traffic on to separate channels on different TCP ports.

> For transaction gossiping between nodes the Ethereum wire protocol is used for P2P propagation of block announcements and transactions. Reliable broadcast between network peer nodes and duplicate message send prevention under an [eventually synchronous model](/concepts/system-model/#networking) to guarantee the liveness property of consensus messaging in the wire protocol. Each participant maintains a current record of peers in the network, updated as new participants join or leave the system. Participants establish an authenticated connection with one another over TCP by the RLPx transport protocol. 

Reviewer: The part about reliable broadcast and eventually sync model does not make much sense to me. What is the meaning?

Author: Bad wording.

I first reworded this to:

>Reliable broadcast between network peer nodes is given by an _eventually synchronous model_ as described in the Concept [System model, Networking](/concepts/system-model/#networking). 

Then reworded the whole section again to:

>For transaction gossiping between nodes the Ethereum wire protocol is used for P2P propagation of block announcements and transactions. Each participant maintains a current record of peers in the network, updated as new participants join or leave the system. Participants establish an authenticated connection with one another over TCP by the RLPx transport protocol. For detail, see the Concept description [System model, Networking](/concepts/system-model/#networking). 

That removes text redundancy between the pages.

Please see commit 04e31cf9f4e3471213336bb655d0b265f6e674d2.

> For consensus gossiping a separate consensus protocol runs alongside the ethwire protocol for the execution of Autonity's BFT Tendermint Consensus algorithm. This channel is used for broadcast of message types for consensus and state synchronisation exchanged by committee members during Tendermint consensus rounds for block proposal, prevote, and pre-commit. Validator messages sent during consensus rounds are cryptographically signed (a 'seal') by validators using BLST cryptography. There are two types of seal: a *proposer seal*, seal of the committee member proposing the block, and a *committed seal*, an aggregated seal of the committee members that voted and agreed on the block. Seals are included in the [block header](/concepts/system-model/#block-header) as cryptographic proof of the validator quorum that agreed on the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For consensus gossiping a separate consensus protocol runs alongside the ethwire protocol for the execution of Autonity's BFT Tendermint Consensus algorithm. This channel is used by committee members to broadcast consensus messages during Tendermint consensus rounds (propose, prevote and precommit). Validator messages sent during consensus rounds are cryptographically signed (sealed). A subset of these signatures are saved in the [block header](/concepts/system-model/#block-header) as cryptographic proof of the validator quorum that agreed on the block: the *proposer seal*, seal of the committee member proposing the block, and the *committed seals*, set of seals from the committee members that voted and agreed on the block.
```

NOTE: consensus msgs are still signed with ECDSA for now and committed seals are not aggregated.
